they're strongholds have always been the
islands of Borneo and Sumatra now even
here they're under siege in the last 10
years alone 50 percent of orangs have
been lost that leaves less than 60,000
in the wild today the fate of the
Sumatran orangutan looks very bleak but
on Borneo
an intense battle rages on to save the
red ape from extinction the rainforests
through which orangs climb is being
systematically stripped of its trees
with only 10% of original forest left
there's not much for them to cling to
time is running out for Asia's only
great ape well would the current decline
in habitat I should give them another
five to ten years they would be gone and
the situation has become so bad that
staff at the Borneo orangutan survival
foundation are on permanent alert it's
their job to pull survivors from the
ruins of their forest home